in 2035 the crew of the ares 3 mission
to mars is exploring acid alia planisha
on martian solar day
seoul 18 of their 31 soul expedition
a severe dust storm threatens to topple
their mars ascent vehicle
mav the mission is scrubbed but as the
crew evacuates
astronaut mark watney is struck by
debris and lost in the storm
the telemetry from his suits biomonitor
is damaged and watney is wrongly
presumed dead
with the mav on the verge of toppling
the surviving crew takes off for their
orbiting vessel
the hermes watney awakens after the
storm
injured and with a low oxygen warning he
returns to the crew's surface habitat
have and treats his wound via
self-surgery
as watney recovers he begins a video
diary
lacking communication with earth his
only chance of rescue is via the next
mars mission
four years later the aries four will be
landing 3200 kilometers
2000 miles away at the schiaparelli
crater
watney's immediate concern is food
however
since he is the mission's botanist he is
able to improvise a garden inside the
hab
using martian soil fertilized with the
cruise bio waste
he also is able to manufacture water
from leftover rocket fuel
he then plants the crew's unused
potatoes which had been air sealed and
kept in a box labelled
do not open until thanksgiving he also
begins modifying the rover for the
distance track to the aries 4 landing
site
on earth nasa satellite planner mindy
park reviewing aerial have images
notices moved equipment and realizes
watney is alive
nasa director teddy sanders publicly
releases the news
though the ares 3 crew still enroute to
earth are not told so that they remained
focused on their mission
sanders overrules hermes flight director
mitch henderson
who believes the crew should know watney
takes the rover to retrieve the nearby
pathfinder probe
which fell silent in 1997.
using pathfinder's camera and motor he
establishes rudimentary two-way
communication with earth first using
handwritten signs
and then sending and receiving ascii in
hexadecimal
nasa transmits a software patch to link
the rover with pathfinder and
communicate via text
watney is angry that the hermes crew is
unaware that he is alive
though he does not blame them for
leaving him behind
sanders finally allows henderson to
inform them
mars mission director vincent kapoor and
jet propulsion laboratory
jpl director bruce and g prepare an iris
space probe to deliver enough food for
watney to survive until aries 4's
arrival
meanwhile the habs airlock malfunctions
killing the potato plants and
sterilizing the soil
believing it a low risk sanders orders
the routine pre-flight safety
inspections be bypassed to expedite the
probe's launch
the rocket explodes soon after liftoff
watney now believes his death on mars is
inevitable
the china national space administration
has been developing a classified booster
rocket
the taiyang shen feeling camaraderie
with nasa scientists
they sought a way to work around
official barriers and offer to repeat
the iris mission
as watney's situation grows riskier as
time passes
jpl astrodynamicist rich purnell devises
an
alternative plan have the taiyang shen
rendezvous with and resupply the hermes
which will then use earth's gravity to
slingshot back to mars two years earlier
than ares four
sanders rejects the idea considering it
too risky for the hermes crew
henderson surreptitiously sends
purnell's plan to the crew
they unanimously vote to implement it
disabling nasa's remote controls and
making the course change
they also tip their hat to purnell by
sending a cryptic message to nasa
rich purnell is a steely-eyed missile
man this comment is a real-life
reference to nasa history john aaron's
quick thinking was credited with saving
apollo 12
and his colleagues declared john aaron
is a steely-eyed missile man
watney begins the 90-soul journey to
schiaparelli
where the mav for aries 4 has been
pre-positioned
the mav needs to be lightened to
intercept with hermes on its new course
watney removes many components and
replaces the nose cone with canvas
after takeoff the mav fails to reach the
required speed
commander lewis maneuvers the hermes to
decelerate by using the spacecraft's rcs
system
she also orders a directional explosive
decompression of the internal atmosphere
to better align the ship
in a manned maneuvering unit lewis is
unable to reach watney when the tether
falls short
watney pierces his pressure suit using
the escaping air to propel himself to
lewis
he and the crew are reunited after
mark's 560 souls alone on mars
after returning to earth watney becomes
a survival instructor for astronaut
candidates
five years later as the ares v commanded
by martinez
is about to launch those involved in
watney's rescue are seen in their
current lives
[Music]